Learn PWA modules 4 and 5 (#6824)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/learn/pwa/assets-and-data/index.md

* **Cache storage**: A collection of HTTP request and response pairs you can use to store and retrieve resources — with their HTTP headers — exactly as they are delivered from the server. The [Cache Storage API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/CacheStorage) allows you to store, retrieve, update and delete network requests, for example for your assets, even when offline. 

{% Aside 'warning' %}
You may have heard about WebSQL and ApplicationCache. These two solutions are deprecated, and you shouldn't use them in your PWA.
{% endAside %}

### The need for service workers

A PWA can store its assets in Cache Storage and IndexedDB, 
but how can we use those assets to deliver a fast and offline experience to your users. The answer? Service workers.

With a service worker, you can serve assets without going to the network, send notifications to a user, add a badge to your PWA icon, update content in the background, and even make your whole PWA work offline. Learn more about service workers in the [next chapter](/learn/pwa/service-workers/).

## Offline-ready

> Users expect  your application to offer a fast and always-ready experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users expect your application to offer a fast and always-ready experience. 
```

That means your app should work offline. 

Being offline-ready doesn't mean that all your content or services should be available without a network connection. 
Having at least a basic experience when the user is offline, like a page that asks you to connect to the Internet to continue, 
is one of the [requirements](/learn/pwa/getting-started/) of being a Progressive Web App. 
In some browsers this is a must-have feature to pass the PWA installation criteria. 
Displaying your PWA's user interface, along with cached content, is better. 
Letting users continue using your whole PWA and syncing server changes when they're back online is the gold standard for working offline.

> To make your app available offline, you will need to cache the assets necessary for your offline experience and make your service worker serve them later. Make sure to add the offline assets to your cache before you need them, this is a particular case where you can not cache them when requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make your app available offline, you will need to cache the assets necessary for your offline experience and make your service worker serve them later. Make sure to add the offline assets to your cache before you need them. This is a particular case where you cannot cache them when requested.
```

Reviewer: I don't understand what the last sentence.

{% Aside %}
Asset caching happens independently from PWA installation, 
and will work even from a browser tab, allowing for faster asset delivery and an offline experience regardless of how a user chooses to use your PWA.
{% endAside %}

### Frequently used cache approaches

In your PWA, you are in charge of all the decisions. You can choose the best approach to cache or install assets based on your needs.
Some decisions to make are:

> * Precaching: pick the assets you'd like to install on the first load; those should include the HTML and the minimal assets to render the app. When using precache keep in mind you are using user device's space and network,be conscious and responsible when downloading assets and caching them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Precaching: pick the assets you'd like to install on the first load; those should include the HTML and the minimal assets to render the app. When using precache keep in mind you are using the device's space and network. Be conscious and responsible when downloading assets and caching them. 
```

> * Cache as needed: used to add assets to the cache when they are requested. Typical these are assets that can change independently of your app version, like images or content. See the [caching](learn/pwa/caching) section for different strategies on how to cache as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Cache as needed: used to add assets to the cache when they are requested. Typicaly these are assets that can change independently of your app version, like images or content. See the [caching](learn/pwa/caching) section for different strategies on how to cache as needed.
```

* APIs and web services: API calls can be cached; or, instead of caching the API responses, you can store their data in IndexedDB.  

{% Aside 'gotchas' %}

> With platform-specific apps, the most common pattern is to include all the app's assets in its package; that's why it's common these apps are larger than 500MB. On the other hand, A PWA can initially install only the minimum set of resources to offer an offline and fast experience and download the rest later, with PWAs using considerably less storage on installation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With platform-specific apps, the most common pattern is to include all the app's assets in its package; that's why these apps are commonly larger than 500 MB. On the other hand, A PWA can initially install only the minimum set of resources to offer an offline and fast experience and download the rest later, with PWAs using considerably less storage on installation. 
```

{% endAside %}

### Updating assets
In the standard app model for app catalog installed apps, when developers need to update their app, they publish a new package. Users need to download the whole package again, even if most of the assets haven't changed.
With PWAs, using the approaches on the section above, you decide how and when to update assets. 
Here are different options for how to update assets:

* Full Update: in this case, every time you make a change in the app, even a minor one, your code will download all the assets again in the cache.
* Partial Update: in this approach, you create a method to define which assets have been updated, and you update only those, with or without the user's intervention.
* Continuous Update: using this technique, your assets will be checked and updated automatically on every PWA usage individually

{% Aside %}
When caching assets, you need to decide on a cache swap or clean up policy that defines when the user will see an updated asset; taking into account storage usage and the balance between a fast experience and displaying a slightly stale asset.
{% endAside %}

## Size and Lifespan

> Usually platform-specific apps don't deal with size limits; at installation, apps can be gigabytes or more in size, as long as the device has the capacity the installation will be allowed. Also, while the app is installed, it will use that total amount of storage no matter if you use the app or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually platform-specific apps don't deal with size limits; at installation, apps can be gigabytes or more in size. As long as the device has the capacity the installation will be allowed. Also, while the app is installed, it will use that total amount of storage no matter if you use the app or not.
```

Storage is handled differently for PWAs. The browser will store your assets based on policies that you define in your PWA's logic. 

{% Aside %}

> The users are always in control, and they can delete the assets at any time. For PWAs, that manual eviction happens via the browser's settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The users are always in control, and they can delete the assets at any time. For PWAs, manual eviction happens via the browser's settings. 
```

{% endAside %}

> In terms of size limits, it depends on the browser. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Size limits depend on the browser. 
```

It's not as flexible as for platform-specific apps, but it's typically good enough for most web apps. You can find the specific limitations by browser in [this article](/storage-for-the-web/#how-much).

> Assets can be evicted based on storage pressure, or after some weeks of inactivity, if the user is using your PWA in the browser. On some platforms, if the user installs your PWA, eviction won't happen. Where available, our code can request persistent storage through an API to avoid that eviction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Browsers can evict assets based on storage pressure, or after some weeks of inactivity, if the user is using your PWA in the browser. On some platforms, if the user installs your PWA, eviction won't happen. Where available, code can request persistent storage through an API to avoid that eviction.
```
